# Videogames Sales exploration.
## by Tomás Maguire


## Dataset

This dataset contains a list of video games with sales greater than 100,000 copies. It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com.

Fields include

Rank - Ranking of overall sales

Name - The games name

Platform - Platform of the games release (i.e. PC,PS4, etc.)

Year - Year of the game's release

Genre - Genre of the game

Publisher - Publisher of the game

NA_Sales - Sales in North America (in millions)

EU_Sales - Sales in Europe (in millions)

JP_Sales - Sales in Japan (in millions)

Other_Sales - Sales in the rest of the world (in millions)

Global_Sales - Total worldwide sales.

Some datawrangling was done in the dataset. NaN rows were dumped. Column Years had some decimal values, so we deleted them. Also since the scraping was done until 2016, some rare values were deleted (corresponding to 2017 a 2020).

## Summary of Findings

_We found that Nintendo Company is a leader both in platform and game sales overall.

_Most popular game genre is Action, followed by Sport.

_Activision and Take Two Interactive follows Nintendo on most popular publishers, when we filter Top 50 games.

_2008 and 2009 register highest sales records overall.

_Japan adopted videogame culture way earlier than other countries present in the dataset.

_North America is the biggest market, compared to Europe, Japan, an rest of the world.

## Key Insights for Presentation

_Our Main goal is to inquire about game culture and market differences.

_When we ask the dataset about most selling genres in Japan, Role Playing stands out, followed by Action and Sports.

_When we ask the dataset about most selling genres in North America, Actions games takes the lead, followed by Sports and Shooters.

_Finally, we managed to create two multivariate graphs that clearly shows market differences between continents.
